samples: bluetooth: ISO time synchronization (#14416)
nrfconnect/sdk-nrf: samples/bluetooth/iso_time_sync/README.rst

.. _bluetooth-isochronous-time-synchronization:

Bluetooth: ISO time synchronization
###################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Overview
********

> The Bluetooth® ISO time synchronization sample showcases time-synchronized processing of isochronous data.

Reviewer: I would spell out ISO here

> The sample demonstrates:

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The sample demonstrates the following features:
```

>  * How to send isochronous data on multiple streams in such a way that all receiving devices can process the data at the same time.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
 * How to send isochronous data on multiple streams in such a way that all receiving devices and the sending device can process the data at the same time.
```

Reviewer 2: Proposed a small edit to the suggestion here

>  * How receiver(s) of the isochronous data can process received data synchronously.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 * How any receiver of the isochronous data can process the received data synchronously.
```

>  * How to provide the isochronous data to the controller right before it is sent on air.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
 * How to provide the isochronous data to the controller right before it is sent on-air.
```

>  * How to achieve this for either broadcast (BIS) or over connections (CIS).

Reviewer 2: Do you mean that this can be achieved both on BIS and CIS types of connections?

> This sample demonstrates this by configuring a single device as a transmitter of its **BTN1** state.

Reviewer 2: What exactly is BTN1? We use ** just for items on the PCB (like gpio pins, or leds)

Author: It is button 1. I will change it to BUTTON1 instead

> The transmitting and receiving device(s) toggle **LED1** synchronously with microsecond accuracy.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The transmitting and receiving devices toggle **LED1** synchronously with microsecond accuracy.
```

> **LED2** is toggled upon sending or receiving the data to allow measurement of the minimal the end-to-end latency.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
**LED2** is toggled upon sending or receiving the data to allow measurement of the minimal end-to-end latency.
```

Requirements
************

The sample supports the following development kits:

.. table-from-sample-yaml::

> The sample also supports other development kits running SoftDevice Controller variants that support isochronous channels (see :ref:`SoftDevice Controller feature support <softdevice_controller>`).

Reviewer: Is there a reason why we don't just add these kits to the table of supported kits?

Reviewer 2: The data in the table is taken from the sample.yaml. Tipically that's maintained by the sample's maintainer. If dks running softdevice controller can build this sample, I don't see why they should not be listed there, if there are no other technical implications. In case of additional Kconfigs needed, these should be mentioned in the building and running section

> In order to demonstrate time synchronization between transmitter and receiver, two development kits are needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
In order to demonstrate time synchronization between the transmitter and receiver, two development kits are needed.
```

To demonstrate time synchronization between multiple receivers, at least three development kits are needed.
You can use any of the development kits mentioned above and mix different development kits.

Additionally, the sample requires a connection to a computer with a serial terminal for each of the development kits.

> To be able to oberserve the microsecond accurate toggling of the LEDs, a logic analyzer or an oscilloscope is needed.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
To be able to observe the microsecond-accurate toggling of the LEDs, a logic analyzer or an oscilloscope is needed.
```

Overview
********

This section first presents a quick overview of isochronous channels.

> The latter part of this section presents the structure of this sample application

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The latter part of this section presents the structure of this sample application.
```

Isochronous channels
====================

> The Bluetooth LE Isochronous Channels feature is a way of using Bluetooth LE to transfer timebounded data between devices.

Reviewer: should we add a reference to the spec here or in the introduction chapter?

Author: I considered adding something here, but I didn't find a section that nicely summarizes the feature

Reviewer 3: perhaps, this document can be used as a reference:
https://www.bluetooth.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/Bluetooth_5.2_Feature_Overview.pdf
it is official Bluetooth document and it gives high-level overview of ISO feature

It provides a mechanism that makes sure that multiple sink devices, receiving data from the same source, will render it at the same time.
Data has a time-limited validity period, at the end of which it is said to expire.
Expired data which has not yet been transmitted, will be discarded.
This means that receiver devices only ever receive data which is valid with respect to rules regarding its age and acceptable latency.

The key concepts of isochronous channels are the following:

Topology
    Isochronous channels can either be used for one-to-many (Broadcast) or one-to-one (Connected).

>     When using connected isochronous streams, data may be time-synchronized between multiple connected devices.

Reviewer: maybe you could add a second sentence about what you mean with time-synchronized.

SDU interval and size
    The SDU interval specificies how often a service data unit (SDU) is transferred.
    The SDU interval and size as well as the number of streams are limited by the bandwidth of the link layer.

Maximum transport latency and retransmission count
    Upon setting up an isochronous stream as a central or a broadcaster, the application provides a maximum transport latency and retransmission count.
    The Bluetooth controller will use the provided parameters to select link layer parameters that satisfy these constraints.
    This involves selecting an isochronous interval, PDU sizes, and isochronous parameters such as burst number (BN), number of subevents (NSE), and flush timeout (FT) or pretransmission offset (PTO).
    For more details about how the SoftDevice Controller selects these parameters, see :ref:`Parameter selection <iso_parameter_selection>`.

Presentation delay
    The receiver(s) of isochronous data may receive their data at different points in time, but need to render/present it synchronously.
    Presentation delay represents the amount of time that is added to the received timestamp to obtain the presentation time of the data.

> * Any of the possible isochronous topologies with unidirectional data transfer.

Reviewer: I think this information here might be misplaced or otherwise needs formating.

  The topology is selected when the application starts.
* The transmitter of the data sends it over all configured and connected streams.
  The number of streams is configured with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_ISO_MAX_CHAN` Kconfig option.
* The receiver of the isochronous data receives data from one transmitter only.
* The maximum transport latency and retransmission count is configured when the application starts.

> * The SDU interval and presentation delay are configured with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SDU_INTERVAL_US` and :kconfig:option:`TIMED_LED_PRESENTATION_DELAY_US` Kconfig options.

Reviewer: could we add the kconfig references to the sections where you explain the different parameters, above?

Sample structure
================

The sample code is divided into multiple source files which makes it easier to compile in or out certain functionality.

:file:`samples/bluetooth/iso_time_sync/src/main.c`: Role and parameter selection

  This file is the entry point of the application.
  The console subsystem is used to select role and ISO parameter to be used.

:file:`samples/bluetooth/iso_time_sync/src/bis_transmitter.c`: BIS transmitter implementation

  This file implements a device that sets up a BIS transmitter with a configured number of streams.

:file:`samples/bluetooth/iso_time_sync/src/bis_receiver.c`: BIS receiver implementation

>   This file implements a device that syncs to a given BIS index.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
  This file implements a device that syncs to a BIS broadcaster with a given index.
```

  2. The SDU is transmitted on all the connected isochronous channels with the same timestamp.
     This ensures that all the receivers can toggle their corresponding LEDs at the same time.
  4. **LED1** is toggled when the LED is supposed to be toggled on the receiving side.
  3. **LED2** is toggled when the data is sent.
     This can be used to observe the end-to-end latency.

:file:`samples/bluetooth/iso_time_sync/src/timed_led_toggle.c`: This file implements timed toggling a LED

  The `GPIOTE` peripheral is used together with `PPI` to achieve accurate timing.

:file:`samples/bluetooth/iso_time_sync/src/controller_time_nrf52.c`,
:file:`samples/bluetooth/iso_time_sync/src/controller_time_nrf53_app.c`,
:file:`samples/bluetooth/iso_time_sync/src/controller_time_nrf54l.c`: Access the current controller time

  The SDU timestamps send and received to the controller are based upon the controller clock.
  These files allow the application to read the current timestamp and set up a PPI trigger at a given point in time.

  The implementation for nRF52 Series and nRF53 Series are implemented by shadowing an RTC peripheral.

>   As the RTC peripheral runs at 32 kHz, the timestamps jitter with +- 16 us.

Reviewer: Remember to update this if you are going to change the jitter.

  The implementation for nRF54L Series uses the GRTC.

>   This peripheral has much higher accuracy and is simpler to use.

Reviewer: Remember to update this if you are going to change the jitter of 52/53.

*************************************

After programming the sample to the development kits, test it by performing the following steps:

1. |connect_terminal_specific|
#. Reset the kits.
#. Configure one of the devices as a connected isochronous stream central by typing "c" in the terminal emulator.
#. Configure the retransmission number and maximum transport latency.
#. Select data direction.
   If the central is configured for transmission, it will connect to multiple peripherals.
#. On the other terminal(s), type "p" to configure the device(s) as connected isochronous stream peripheral(s).
#. Select data direction.
#. Observe that the periphrals(s) connect to the central and start receiving isochronous data.
#. Press **BTN1** on the central device.
#. Observe that **LED1** and **LED2** toggle on both the central and peripheral devices.

Observe time-synchronized ISO data processing
*********************************************

When **BTN1** is pressed on the transmitting device, it is possible to observe that **LED1** toggles simulatiously on all devices.
To observe the microsecond accurate toggling, a logic analyzer or oscilloscope must be used.

> The picture below shows that the LEDs the resulting trace from a logic analyzer connected to **LED1** on multiple boards.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The picture below shows the resulting trace from a logic analyzer connected to **LED1** on multiple boards.
```

The time between the toggles on all devices is less than 2 us.

TODO: Insert figure

.. note::
  The logic traces shown here are obtained using a nRF54L Series device.

>   Traces obtained with the nRF52 and nRF53 Series will have an inaccuracy of maximum 16 us.

Reviewer: Remember to update this if you change the jitter for 52/53

> .. _bluetooth-isochronous-time-synchronization:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
.. _bluetooth_isochronous_time_synchronization:
```

The sample demonstrates the following features:

 * How to send isochronous data on multiple streams so that the receiving devices and the sending device can process the data at the same time.
 * How the receivers of the isochronous data can process the received data synchronously.
 * How to provide the isochronous data to the controller right before it is sent on-air.
 * How to achieve this for either broadcast (BIS) or over connections (CIS).

This sample configures a single device as a transmitter of its **BUTTON1** state.
The transmitting and receiving devices toggle **LED1** synchronously with the accuracy of a few microseconds.
When the :kconfig:option:`LED_TOGGLE_IMMEDIATELY_ON_SEND_OR_RECEIVE` Kconfig option is enabled, **LED2** is toggled upon sending or receiving data.
This allows you to measure the minimal end-to-end latency.

.. note::
  This sample requires less hardware resources when it is run on an nRF54L Series device compared to the nRF52 or nRF53 Series devices.
  On an nRF54L Series device, only one GRTC channel and PPI channel is needed to set up accurate toggling of an LED.

>   On nRF52 and nRF53 Series devices, you also need one RTC peripheral, one TIMER peripheral, one EGU channel, 3 PPI channels, and one PPI group.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  On nRF52 and nRF53 Series devices, you also need one RTC peripheral, one TIMER peripheral, one EGU channel, three PPI channels, and one PPI group.
```

  #. Synchronize to the corresponding periodic advertiser.
  #. Synchronize to the selected BIS.

  When the ISO channel is disconnected, it tries to sync to it again.

``cis_central.c``
  This file implements a device that acts as a CIS central.
  The central can be configured either as a transmitter or a receiver.

  1. Configure a connected isochronous group (CIG).
  #. Scan and connect to a device that contains the device name.
  #. Set up a CIS to the connected device.
  #. Continue to scanning for more peripherals, if there are more available isochronous streams.

``cis_peripheral.c``
  This file implements a device that acts as a CIS peripheral.
  The peripheral can be configured either as a transmitter or a receiver.

  1. Set up an isochronous server so that it can later on accept the setup or a CIS.
  #. Start advertising its device name.
  #. Once a device has connected, accept the incoming CIS request.

``iso_rx.c``
  This file handles receiving of isochronous data.
  Once an isochronous stream is connected, the isochronous parameters are printed.

  When a valid SDU is received, the following operations are performed:

>    * If the :kconfig:option:`LED_TOGGLE_IMMEDIATELY_ON_SEND_OR_RECEIVE` Kconfig option is enabled, **LED2** is toggled immediately.
>       You can use this to observe that different receivers may receive the SDU at different points in time.
>    * A timer trigger is configured to toggle **LED1** :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TIMED_LED_PRESENTATION_DELAY_US` after the received timestamp.
>       This ensures that all receivers and the transmitter toggle it at the same time.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * If the :kconfig:option:`LED_TOGGLE_IMMEDIATELY_ON_SEND_OR_RECEIVE` Kconfig option is enabled, **LED2** is toggled immediately.
    You can use this to observe that different receivers may receive the SDU at different points in time.
  * A timer trigger is configured to toggle **LED1** :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TIMED_LED_PRESENTATION_DELAY_US` after the received timestamp.
    This ensures that all receivers and the transmitter toggle it at the same time.
```

The sample demonstrates the following features:

 * How to send isochronous data on multiple streams so that the receiving devices and the sending device can process the data at the same time.
 * How the receivers of the isochronous data can process the received data synchronously.
 * How to provide the isochronous data to the controller right before it is sent on-air.
 * How to achieve this for either broadcast (BIS) or over connections (CIS).

This sample configures a single device as a transmitter of its **BUTTON1** state.
The transmitting and receiving devices toggle **LED1** synchronously with the accuracy of a few microseconds.
When the :kconfig:option:`LED_TOGGLE_IMMEDIATELY_ON_SEND_OR_RECEIVE` Kconfig option is enabled, **LED2** is toggled upon sending or receiving data.
This allows you to measure the minimal end-to-end latency.

.. note::
  This sample requires less hardware resources when it is run on an nRF54L Series device compared to the nRF52 or nRF53 Series devices.
  On an nRF54L Series device, only one GRTC channel and PPI channel is needed to set up accurate toggling of an LED.

>   On nRF52 and nRF53 Series devices, you also need one RTC peripheral, one TIMER peripheral, one EGU channel, 3 PPI channels, and one PPI group.

Author: It needs to be capitalized as it is the same category of peripherals such as PPI, GPIOTE, RTC etc

  * **LED1** is configured to toggle synchronously will the **LED1** on all the receivers.
    The toggle time is determined by the TX timestamp and how it is defined relative to the synchronization reference on the receiver.
  * If the :kconfig:option:`LED_TOGGLE_IMMEDIATELY_ON_SEND_OR_RECEIVE` Kconfig option is enabled, **LED2** is toggled right before sending the SDU.
    This can be used to observe the end-to-end latency.

``timed_led_toggle.c``

  This file implements timed toggling a LED.
  The `GPIOTE` peripheral is used together with `PPI` to achieve microsecond-accurate timing.

``controller_time_<device>.c``
  The SDU timestamps send and received to the controller are based upon the controller clock.
  These files allow the application to read the current timestamp and set up a PPI trigger at a given point in time.

  The implementation for nRF52 Series and nRF53 Series are implemented by shadowing an RTC peripheral combined with a TIMER peripheral.
  The implementation for nRF54L Series uses the GRTC and is much simpler to use.

Building and running
********************

> .. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/bluetooth/iso_time_sync`

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/bluetooth/iso_time_sync`
```

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

Testing
*******

The sample can either demonstrate broadcast isochronous streams or connected isochronous streams.

Testing broadcast isochronous streams
=====================================

After programming the sample to the development kits, test it by performing the following steps:

1. |connect_terminal_specific|
#. Reset the kits.

> #. Configure one of the devices as a isochronous broadcaster by typing either "b" or "c" in the terminal emulator.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. Configure one of the devices as a isochronous broadcaster by typing either ``b`` or ``c`` in the terminal emulator.
```

#. Configure the retransmission number and maximum transport latency.
#. Observe that the broadcaster starts and starts transmitting SDUs.

> #. On the other terminal(s), type "r" to configure the device(s) as a broadcast isochronous stream receivers.

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. On the other terminal(s), type ``r`` to configure the device(s) as receivers of the broadcast isochronous stream.
```

#. Select which BIS the receiver should synchronize to.
#. Observe that the device(s) synchronize to the broadcaster and start receiving isochronous data.
#. Press **BUTTON1** on the broadcaster.
#. Observe that **LED1** toggles on both the broadcaster and the receivers.

Testing connected isochronous streams
=====================================

After programming the sample to the development kits, test it by performing the following steps:

1. |connect_terminal_specific|
#. Reset the kits.
#. Configure one of the devices as a connected isochronous stream central by typing "c" in the terminal emulator.
#. Configure the retransmission number and maximum transport latency.
#. Select data direction.
   If the central is configured for transmission, it will connect to multiple peripherals.

> #. On the other terminal(s), type "p" to configure the device(s) as connected isochronous stream peripheral(s).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
#. On the other terminal(s), type ``p`` to configure the device(s) as connected isochronous stream peripheral(s).
```

.. _bluetooth-isochronous-time-synchronization:

Bluetooth: ISO time synchronization
###################################

.. contents::
   :local:
   :depth: 2

Overview
********

The Bluetooth® isochronous time synchronization sample showcases time-synchronized processing of isochronous data.

The sample demonstrates the following features:

 * How to send isochronous data on multiple streams so that the receiving devices and the sending device can process the data at the same time.
 * How the receivers of the isochronous data can process the received data synchronously.
 * How to provide the isochronous data to the controller right before it is sent on-air.
 * How to achieve this for either broadcast (BIS) or over connections (CIS).

This sample demonstrates this by configuring a single device as a transmitter of its **BUTTON1** state.

> The transmitting and receiving devices toggle **LED1** synchronously with microsecond accuracy.

Author: This is not expected. The accuracy is within the range of a few microseconds

    Connected isochronous streams can either transfer data from central to peripheral, peripheral to central, or in both directions.

SDU interval and size
    The SDU interval specifies how often a service data unit (SDU) is transferred.
    The SDU interval and size as well as the number of streams are limited by the bandwidth of the link layer.
    In this sample the SDU interval is configured with the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_SDU_INTERVAL_US`.

Maximum transport latency and retransmission count
    Upon setting up an isochronous stream as a central or a broadcaster, the application provides a maximum transport latency and retransmission count.
    The Bluetooth controller will use the provided parameters to select link layer parameters that satisfy these constraints.
    This involves selecting an isochronous interval, PDU sizes, and isochronous parameters such as burst number (BN), number of subevents (NSE), and flush timeout (FT) or pretransmission offset (PTO).
    For more details about how the SoftDevice Controller selects these parameters, see :ref:`Parameter selection <iso_parameter_selection>`.

Presentation delay

>     The receiver(s) of isochronous data may receive their data at different points in time, but need to render/present it synchronously.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    The receiver(s) of isochronous data may receive their data at different points in time, but need to render or present it synchronously.
```

    Presentation delay represents the amount of time that is added to the received timestamp to obtain the presentation time of the data.

>     In this sample the presentation delay is configured with the Kconfig option :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TIMED_LED_PRESENTATION_DELAY_US`.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    In this sample, the presentation delay is configured with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TIMED_LED_PRESENTATION_DELAY_US` Kconfig option.
```

For more details about this feature, see `Bluetooth Core Specification Version 5.2 Feature Overview <https://www.bluetooth.com/wp-content/uploads/2020/01/Bluetooth_5.2_Feature_Overview.pdf>`_.

This sample demonstrates the following:

* Any of the possible isochronous topologies with unidirectional data transfer.
  The topology is selected when the application starts.
* The transmitter of the data sends it over all configured and connected streams.
  The number of streams is configured with the :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_BT_ISO_MAX_CHAN` Kconfig option.
* The receiver of the isochronous data receives data from one transmitter only.
* The maximum transport latency and retransmission count is configured when the application starts.

> 

Reviewer 4: Remove extra empty line

Sample structure
================

> The sample code is divided into multiple source files which makes it easier to compile in or out certain functionality.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The sample code is divided into multiple source files, which makes it easier to compile in or out certain functionalities.
```

``main.c``

>   The main entry point of the sample allows the user to selects the role and parameters to be used.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  The main entry point of the sample allows your to select the role and parameters to be used.
```

``bis_transmitter.c``
  This file implements a device that sets up a BIS transmitter with a configured number of streams.
  That is:

>   1. Configure and start an extended advertiser.
>      The extended advertiser advertiser data contains the device name.
>   2. Configure and start a periodic advertiser.
>   3. Configures and starts a broadcast isochronous group (BIG).

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  *  Configure and start an extended advertiser.
     The extended advertiser advertiser data contains the device name.
  * Configure and start a periodic advertiser.
  * Configure and start a broadcast isochronous group (BIG).
```
If these are steps that need to happen in this order, use 1. for the first item and then #. for the others.

``bis_receiver.c``
  This file implements a device that syncs to a BIS broadcaster with a given BIS index.

>   1. Scan for extended advertisers containing the device name.
>   2. Synchronize to the corresponding periodic advertiser.
>   3. Synchronize to the selected BIS.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * Scan for extended advertisers containing the device name.
  * Synchronize to the corresponding periodic advertiser.
  * Synchronize to the selected BIS.
```
Same as above.

  When the ISO channel is disconnected, it tries to sync to it again.

``cis_central.c``
  This file implements a device that acts as a CIS central.

>   The central can either be configured as a transmitter or a receiver.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  The central can be configured either as a transmitter or a receiver.
```

>   1. Configures a connected isochronous group (CIG).
>   2. Scans and connects to a device that contain the device name.
>   3. Sets up an CIS to the connected device.
>   4. Continues to scanning for more peripherals if there are more available isochronous streams.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * Configure a connected isochronous group (CIG).
  * Scan and connect to a device that contains the device name.
  * Set up an CIS to the connected device.
  * Continue to scanning for more peripherals, if there are more available isochronous streams.
```

``cis_peripheral.c``

>   This file implements a device that acts as a CIS peripheral.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  This file implements a device that acts as an CIS peripheral.
```

  The peripheral can either be configured as a transmitter or a receiver.

>   1. Sets up an isochronous server so that it can later on accept setup or a CIS.
>   2. Starts advertising its device name.
>   3. Once a device has connected, accept the incoming CIS request.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * Set up an isochronous server so that it can later on accept the setup or an CIS.
  * Start advertising its device name.
  * Once a device has connected, accept the incoming CIS request.
```

``iso_rx.c``
  This file handles receiving of isochronous data.
  Once an isochronous stream is connected, the isochronous parameters are printed.

>   When a valid SDU is received, the following is done:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  When a valid SDU is received, the following operations are performed:
```

>    1. If the :kconfig:option:`LED_TOGGLE_IMMEDIATELY_ON_SEND_OR_RECEIVE` Kconfig option is enabled, **LED2** is toggled immediately.
>       This can be used to observe that different receivers may receive the SDU at different points in time.
>    2. A timer trigger is configured to toggle **LED1** :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TIMED_LED_PRESENTATION_DELAY_US` after the received timestamp.
>       This will ensure that all receivers and the transmitter toggle it at the same time.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
   * If the :kconfig:option:`LED_TOGGLE_IMMEDIATELY_ON_SEND_OR_RECEIVE` Kconfig option is enabled, **LED2** is toggled immediately.
      You can use this to observe that different receivers may receive the SDU at different points in time.
   * A timer trigger is configured to toggle **LED1** :kconfig:option:`CONFIG_TIMED_LED_PRESENTATION_DELAY_US` after the received timestamp.
      This ensures that all receivers and the transmitter toggle it at the same time.
```

``iso_tx.c``
  This file handles time-synchronized transmitting of isochronous data on all established streams.
  Each SDU contains a counter and the current value of **BUTTON1**.
  The implementation ensures the following:

  * The SDU is transmitted right before it is supposed to be sent on air.
    This is achieved by setting up a timer to trigger right before the next TX timestamp.
  * The SDU is transmitted on all the established isochronous channels with the same timestamp.
    This ensures that all the receivers can toggle their corresponding LEDs at the same time.

>     The very first SDU is provided without a timestamp because the timestamp is not known at this point in time.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    The very first SDU is provided without a timestamp, because the timestamp is not known at this point in time.
```

>   * **LED1** is configured to toggle synchronously will the **LED1** on all the receivers.
>     The toggle time is determined by the TX timestamp and how it is defined relative to the synchronization reference on the receiver.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  * **LED1** is configured to toggle synchronously with the **LED1** on all the receivers.
    The toggle time is determined by the TX timestamp and defined relative to the synchronization reference on the receiver.
```

  * If the :kconfig:option:`LED_TOGGLE_IMMEDIATELY_ON_SEND_OR_RECEIVE` Kconfig option is enabled, **LED2** is toggled right before sending the SDU.

>     This can be used to observe the end-to-end latency.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
    You can use this to observe the end-to-end latency.
```

``timed_led_toggle.c``

  This file implements timed toggling a LED.

>   The `GPIOTE` peripheral is used together with `PPI` to achieve microsecond-accurate timing.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  The ``GPIOTE`` peripheral is used together with ``PPI`` to achieve accurate timing.
```

``controller_time_<device>.c``

>   The SDU timestamps send and received to the controller are based upon the controller clock.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  The SDU timestamps sent and received to the controller are based upon the controller clock.
```

  These files allow the application to read the current timestamp and set up a PPI trigger at a given point in time.

>   The implementation for nRF52 Series and nRF53 Series are implemented by shadowing an RTC peripheral combined with a TIMER peripheral.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  The implementation for nRF52 and nRF53 Series devices is implemented by shadowing an RTC peripheral combined with a timer peripheral.
```

>   The implementation for nRF54L Series uses the GRTC and is much simpler to use.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
  The implementation for nRF54L Series devices uses the GRTC and is simpler to use.
```

Building and running
********************

.. |sample path| replace:: :file:`samples/bluetooth/iso_time_sync`

.. include:: /includes/build_and_run.txt

> 

Reviewer 4: Remove extra empty line.

Testing
*******

> The sample can either demonstrate broadcast isochronous streams or connected isochronous streams.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The sample can demonstrate broadcast isochronous streams or connected isochronous streams.
```

Testing broadcast isochronous streams
=====================================

After programming the sample to the development kits, test it by performing the following steps:

1. |connect_terminal_specific|
#. Reset the kits.

> #. Configure one of the devices as a isochronous broadcaster by typing either ``b`` or ``c`` in the terminal emulator.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#. Configure one of the devices as an isochronous broadcaster by typing either ``b`` or ``c`` in the terminal emulator.
```

> #. Configure the retransmission number and maximum transport latency.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#. Configure the number of retransmissions and maximum transport latency.
```

> #. Observe that the broadcaster starts and starts transmitting SDUs.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#. Observe that the broadcaster starts and begins to transmit SDUs.
```

#. On the other terminal(s), type ``r`` to configure the device(s) as receivers of the broadcast isochronous stream.
#. Select which BIS the receiver should synchronize to.
#. Observe that the device(s) synchronize to the broadcaster and start receiving isochronous data.
#. Press **BUTTON1** on the broadcaster.
#. Observe that **LED1** toggles on both the broadcaster and the receivers.

Testing connected isochronous streams
=====================================

After programming the sample to the development kits, test it by performing the following steps:

1. |connect_terminal_specific|
#. Reset the kits.
#. Configure one of the devices as a connected isochronous stream central by typing ``c`` in the terminal emulator.

> #. Configure the retransmission number and the maximum transport latency.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
#. Configure the number of retransmissions and the maximum transport latency.
```
Not so sure about this. Is it the number of retransmission (count) or does a retransmission have a certain number?

#. Select data direction.
   If the central is configured for transmission, it will connect to multiple peripherals.
#. On the other terminal(s), type ``p`` to configure the device(s) as connected isochronous stream peripheral(s).
#. Select data direction.
#. Observe that the periphrals(s) connect to the central and start receiving isochronous data.
#. Press **BUTTON1** on the central device.
#. Observe that **LED1** toggles on both the central and peripheral devices.

Observe time-synchronized ISO data processing
=============================================

When **BUTTON1** is pressed on the transmitting device, it is possible to observe that **LED1** toggles simultaneously on all devices.
To observe the microsecond accurate toggling, a logic analyzer or oscilloscope must be used.

Sample output
*************

> The result should look similar to the following output.

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
The result should look similar to the following output:
```

   Received SDU with counter: 300, btn_val: 0, LED will be set in 9493 us
   Received SDU with counter: 400, btn_val: 0, LED will be set in 9493 us
   Received SDU with counter: 500, btn_val: 0, LED will be set in 9493 us

* For the connected isochronous stream peripheral configured for transmission::

   Bluetooth ISO Time Sync Demo
   Choose role - cis_central (c) / cis_peripheral (p) / bis_transmitter (b) / bis_receiver (r) : p
   Choose direction - TX (t) / RX (r) : t
   Starting CIS peripheral, dir: tx
   CIS peripheral started advertising
   Connected: E8:DC:8D:B3:47:69 (random)
   Incoming request from 0x20002440
   ISO channel index 0 connected: interval: 10 ms, NSE: 2, BN: 1, FT: 2, transport latency: 10924 us
   Sent SDU, counter: 0, btn_val: 0, LED will be set in 20308 us
   Sent SDU, counter: 100, btn_val: 0, LED will be set in 10470 us
   Sent SDU, counter: 200, btn_val: 0, LED will be set in 10460 us
   Sent SDU, counter: 300, btn_val: 0, LED will be set in 10450 us
   Sent SDU, counter: 400, btn_val: 0, LED will be set in 10470 us
   Sent SDU, counter: 500, btn_val: 0, LED will be set in 10460 us

Dependencies
*************

> This sample uses the following `sdk-nrfxlib`_ libraries:

Reviewer 4: ```suggestion
This sample uses the following `sdk-nrfxlib`_ library:
```
